# Bregalad, a backend that helps transform people into Ents

## Testing

  Once the server is up and running, if you want to test a new email try this command:

    curl -i http://localhost:/participant --form image=@profile.jpg --form interested=true --form first_name=Bobby --form last_name=Tables --form zip=11201 --form timed_out=false

  You should get an email, with an inline image from stuff@fakelove.tv within minutes. Make sure you have config.json filled out.

### Post a new tree

    POST /tree?timestamp={timestamp}

Unity App POST’s image file to **/tree**, and the server will respond with the file path to the image, which can then be retrieved via http. The filename of the image will be **$timestamp**.jpg, and the image should be market in a form field called **image**. The timestamp must be 10 decimal digits, like the output from `$(date +%s)`.

### Get the last N trees

     GET /trees[?num=4][&offset=0]

This endpoint is accessed by the iPad app. It returns the "num" most recently created Tree image file paths (default 4 for application/json, 25 for application/html).

If accept-type is application/html, render a paginated gallery of 25 images at a time.

### Send an email with the chosen treeface

    POST /participant?name={string} \
                     &email={email} \
                     &interested={true|false|**empty**} \
                     &image={unix timestamp} \
                     &timestamp={unix timestamp}

When the user has hit submit on the iPad app, the following information is submitted or created as a new entry.

### Get participants

    GET /participants[?num=4][&offset=0]
    GET /participant/{id}

#### Participant Model
  * **uuid** unique number generated by the server
  * **name** participants full name
  * **email** where to send the email(string@string.string)
  * **interested** is "name" interested in being contacted by a representative (boolean or blank if they walked away)
  * **image** the timestamp of the photo to claim
  * **delivered** was this email successfully sent? (boolean)

## Installation and Deployment
 
The API requires [node.js](http://nodejs.org) v0.11.x, [coffeescript](http://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript) trunk, and is built on the [koa](koajs.com) web framework.

The recommended setup is to use [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) to handle installing and using the correct version of node when doing `npm install` and `npm start`.

For example, if you are on a fresh Yosemite:

    # Install nvm (node version manager)
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.17.3/install.sh | bash

    # Install node v0.11.13
    nvm install v0.11.13

    # Set v0.11.13 to the default
    nvm alias default v0.11.13

    # Install libraries
    npm install


Its possible that npm doesn't get picked up in your `$PATH`, so add it to your **.profile**:

    echo 'source ${HOME}/.nvm/nvm.sh' > ~/.profile

Make sure to add your postmarkapp api_key to **config.json**

    mv config.json{.template,}
    vim config.json

Now you should be ready to run the server

    npm start

Now check out [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)


If you want to just mess around with email sending, try

    npm test
    http :5000 email=who@where.com

They will get some killer email

Cheers!
